Stop writing C/C++! (#18)
nientedidecente/nientedidecente.github.io: _posts/en/2020-05-25-stop-saying-c-cpp.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Please, stop saying you know C/C++!"
date:   2020-05-26 16:00:00 +0200
categories: c cpp development
series: rant
author: slaierno
lang: en
lang-ref: stop-saying-c-cpp
---

(Note: this is _not_ a rant, but I am going to rant during the short preface. Sorry.)

## Preface

> Ok, relax. Take a deep breath. Now, listen (read) to me: _there is no such language as C/C++_. There is the C, there _are_ the C++_s_ and they are _all different languages_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ok, relax. Take a deep breath. Now, listen to (read) me: _there is no such language as C/C++_. There is C, there _are_ C++_s_ and they are _all different languages_. 
```

> You may know one of them, you may know all of them, but saying tou know "C/C++" just doesn't make any sense.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may know one of them, you may know all of them, but saying you know "C/C++" just doesn't make any sense.  
```

> Would you ever write in your résumé that you know, e.g., "C/Objective-C"? Or "Java/Kotlin"? If your answer is _"of course not, they are different languages!"_, such answer is correct and you should stop writing "C/C++". Put a damn comma between two different languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Would you ever write in your résumé that you know, e.g., "C/Objective-C"? Or "Java/Kotlin"? If your answer is _"of course not, they are different languages!"_, such an answer is correct and you should stop writing "C/C++". Put a damn comma between two different languages.
```

...uh‽‽‽

> Well, if you are accostumed to MSVC (in C++ mode) or to C99 code, or you just thought that knowing C++ code was enough to write C code...here we are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, if you are accustomed to MSVC (in C++ mode) or to C99 code, or you just thought that knowing C++ code was enough to write C code...here we are.
```

> In C90 you could not declare variable in the loop declaration. And that is not all, you are only allowed to declare variables at the very beginning of a block. Every declaration must happen before any statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In C90 you could not declare variables inside a loop declaration. And that is not all, you are only allowed to declare variables at the very beginning of a block. Every declaration must happen before any statement.
```

> That is not anything remotely similar to what a C++ developer could have seen in the '90s. It's a whole different monstrousity, whether it is a good or a bad thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is not anything remotely similar to what a C++ developer could have seen in the '90s. It's a whole different monstrosity, whether it is a good or a bad thing.
```

> To be honest, that is nothing similar to C++14 code either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be honest, that does not look anything like C++14 code either.
```

Of course, it is not necessary to write every single version of the language in your CV. It is reasonable e.g. to say you know C++11/14 or C++17/20.

And it is perfectly fine to say that you just know C++98 because you attended that OOP crash course during college. If you are versed in other languages and experienced overall developer, you could be an equally valuable C++20 developer with a little bit of effort.

But it is also important to state what you know and to know what you do not know (how many time did I say the word "know" until now?). Because not only is difficult go up to the newest versions of C++, but it is also difficult to go *down* to the oldest ones.

If I ever found myself stuck with an old compiler limited to C++98, I would just switch to C. Not because C++98 is a bad language, but because I work mainly with C (for a living) and C++17/20 (in my side projects). And I honestly do not know what would my toolset be in C++98. Do I have non-type template parameters? What parts of STL are available? Smart pointers are not present...can I use [boost](https://www.boost.org) for them? Delegate constructors are not available...right?

> In the end, just a suggestion: if you need to learn C++ in order to enter into the gamedev scene, learn a *modern* C++ and jump right into C++17, at least. Even C++20 given that it a complete standard and all the major compilers' support is reaching the final stages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the end, just a suggestion: if you need to learn C++ in order to enter the gamedev scene, learn a *modern* C++ and jump right into C++17, at least. Even C++20 given that it a complete standard and all the major compilers' support is reaching the final stages.
```
